# Server Traffic Metrics Monitoring

[Assignment 4](http://courses.washington.edu/css390/2019-q4/assignment-04.html) 
for CSS 390.

## Overview

There are 3 script files which follow the requirements and naming 
conventions stipulated in the assignment.

* `trafficgen` uses `urllib3` to make HTTP requests to the server 
  of interest.
* `collector` polls the server's stats endpoint to get current 
  metrics data at specific time intervals.
* `plot` calculates a rolling average of requests per second received 
  by the server and plots the requests for the time range provided in 
  the log file generated by `collector`.

## Good & Bad Takeaways

#### Good

Learning more about `urllib3` was useful; I also looked into 
`asyncio` and `asynchttp` as part of the background research for this 
assignment.

#### Bad

The plot script looks cobbled together because it is cobbled together, 
and I didn't do this assignment justice in that respect.

I enjoy data visualization work and have used `matplotlib` for 
personal and academic projects in the past, so I am disappointed that 
I did not give myself enough time to polish this script and produce 
a more visually appealing graph.

Things to improve on the plot:

* Generate the 1-minute and 10-minute rates according to the CLI
  arguments provided. I started working on this but it isn't fully 
  implemented.
* Reduce the density of the x-axis major & minor tick marks, and 
  convert the UNIX time series values to hour:minute values.
* Add a title, beautification, etc.
